!see if you can determine what is wrong with it
!okay, so I agree this might not be terribly useful, but it does show a few things
how long have you been looking for?
what have you been waiting for?
I would like you to meet my friend - chciałbym ci przedstawić mego przyjaciekla
my name's ..., but you can call me ...
good to meet you - miło panią poznać
what's that for? - po co to?
what does it do? - co to robi?
does it work properly? - to działa prawidłowo?
when do we use it? - kiedy z tego korzystamy?
I must go out by midday - muszę wyjść przed południem
I work for eight hours daily - pracuję przez 8 godzin codziennie
I had to collect the referral from her - musiałem odebtać skierowanie od niej
where have you been? - gdzie byłaś?
I came to work shortly after six o'clock - przyszedłem do pracy tuż po szóstej
I must deliver dokuments in order to sign the contract
I knew how to seperate this file - wiedziałem jak rozdzielić ten plik
I altogether forgot about it - zupełnie o tym zapomniałem
I am unable to do that - nie jestem w stanie tego zrobić
I want to extend my visa - chcę przedłużyć moją wizę
please, reply me, as soon, as you can - proszę odpowiedz jak najszybciej
we are no longer friends - już nie jesteśmy przyjaciółmi
I'd like to sit on the fence - chciałbym nie przyjmować żadnej ze stron
I have the argument with her - kłócę się z nią
I go out with her - spotykam się z nią
I am angry with you - jestem na ciebie zły
watch the video and then do the 3 exercises at the end
there are two of us. I want to book a double room
when will my life begin?
this t-shirt fits you well (fit by size) - ta koszulka pasuje ci dobrze
does the 14:00 suit you?
take off your t-shirt and try on this one
here is an explanation for each line - tu jest wytłumaczenie dla każdej linii
I realized |ˈriːˌlaɪzd| how important she is for me - zdałem sobie sprawę ... 
here is a script that does something a little more useful
there is no reason to go there - nie ma powodu tam iść
there is no reason to continue if the file doesn't exist
where are you heading? - dokąd zmierzasz?
buy tickets at once otherwise we'll be late - kup bilety natychmiast
am I free to enter there? - czy jestem uprawniony do tego żeby tam wejść?
you are tired as I am - jesteś zmęczony jak ja
once she went there and didn't go back - pewnego razu ona tam poszła i nie wróciła
I bought all I wanted except for apples - kupiłem wszystco co chciałem oprócz jabłek
what's more I've never seen her before - ponadto nigdy jej nie widziałem
in summary they were a great holidays - podsumowując to były dobre święta
I suggest you avoid our territory - radzę ci omijać nas terytorium
I can't take it mo more - nie mogę dłużej tego akceptować
I wish I was rich - chciałbym być bogaty (taraz)
!if I were to propose, would you accept? - zgodziłbyś się gdybym zaproponował???
I am going to = I propose |prəˈpoʊz| - zamierzam
how long will it take? - jak długo to zajmie?
how long did the flight last? - jak gługo trwał lot?
can you do it likewise? - możesz zrobić tak samo?
I will be late today because of my illness - spóźnię się dziś z podowu mojej choroby
what time will we meet? the 9 pm suit me - o której się spotkamy?
I am out of money - nie mam pieniędzy
I am out of temper - straciłem panowanie
I had in mind I'd have to hurry  |ˈhɜːri| - miałem na myśli że musiałbym się śpieszyć
I'm sorry you've waited me for 20 minutes - przepraszam że czekałaś na mnie przed 20 minut
I arrived shortly after you left
given my tiredness it's fine that I've got up at all - biorąc pod uwagę moje zmęczenie
the letter arrived yesterday
nonetheless she's been being my daughter
I saw her many times - widziałem ją wiele razy
she's gone (be gone) - ona zniknęła 
everybody has a weaknesses |ˈwiːknəsəz| and strengths |ˈstreŋkθs|
I met her when going to apply for the visa
there is no adwantage in eating sugar - nie ma żadnej korzyści w jedzeniu curku
among advantages of living here is high salary |ˈsæləri|
you need to act fast - musisz działać szybko
speed is the main advantage of this approach - prędkość to największa korzyść tego podejścia
I'm away - nie ma mnie
I will compare you against her - będę porównywał ciebie z nią
can you stand for me jesterday? - możesz mnie zastąpić jutro?
let's take a look at this - zpójżmy na to
!to help understand this chapter run the script on your system - żeby zrozumieć
is it clear to you? - rozumiesz to?
it's clear to me - jest to dla mnie zrozumiałe
it is a good idea to declare all variables before they are used
my suggestion is to use what you feel most comfortable with
what do you feel comfortable with?
the output from both loops is the same
however, the conditions are the opposite
where is the loo? |luː| - gdzie jest toaleta?
she is looking for the job and is becoming frustrated
she said no. if only she had said yes
I am a cleaner. if only I had worked harder at school - [zmienić przeszłość]
if only someone would offer me a job - gdyby tylko ktoś mi zaproponował
if only someone would come to visit me - gdyby tylko ktoś mnie odwiedził
if only she would say yes tomorrow - gbyby tylko się zgodziła jutro
if only I would win the game - gdybym tylko wygrał grę (in the future)
if only my cell phone was working - gdyby tylko moja komurka działała (now)
if only it wasn't raining - gdyby tylko nie padało (now)
if only I had a car - gdybym tylko miał samochód /in the present/ 
I wish I had a car (to wish + past) - chciałbym mieć samochód (in the present)
I wish I was rich - chciałbym być bogaty
she is thinking about what happened |ˈhæpənd|
it rained every day - padało codziennie
I wish it didn't rain - chcę żeby nie padało
I am here to help answer questions when they arise - ... kiedy one powstaną

can you show me the way to slice onions? - kroić w plasterki cebulę?
stay here until (aż) the danger has passed
until recently, Anna worked as a teacher in Japan - do niedawna
keep going until I tell you to stop
he did not write to us until last week
the ticket is valid until March |mɑːrtʃ|
wait until I come - czekaj aż przyjdę
with a bad temper you can't be here
during the interview, they asked about my previous jobs - podczas
he worked in the field during most of the day - ... w ciągu ...
she swims every other day during the summer - w ciągu całego lata
I am here to help you to settle in in our company - ... zaaklimatyzować się
I can’t wait for your first day to meet you
I look forward to working with you - czekam na
it's understandable, given your mother issues - jest to zrozumiałe ...
I wish I did that - chciałbym to zrobić
they'll soon settle in — kids are very good at adjusting
do you feel comfortable with it? - czujesz się dobrze z tym?
sometimes you encounter (napotykać) a situation where you would like to exit the loop early
this can be accomplished (wykonane) using the break and continue commands
this is because - to dlatego, że
this is because the control goes immediately back to the while statement
this is because break immediately causes the loop to end
play with this one enough to really understand what is going on
in general, the sleep command is used to introduce a delay in the script
when I was at school, I would study for 2 hours every evening - habit zwyczaj
she was angry with me and she would not speak to me - refusal odmowa
why are you late? my car wouldn't start - refusal
last week, I thought I would pass the exam
he is sure I'll like his house - jest przekonany że mi się podoba
he was sure I'd like his house - był przekonany że mi się podoba
she said that she would help me - indirect speech
would you like a glass of ogange juice?
would you help me carry my bags? - nieść
if I had a car I would drive every week (2) - gdybym miał samochód to bym 
if I had known her I would have asked her out - gdybym ją znał to bym (the past)
she doesn't get a question - one nie rozumie pytania
she gets on well with him - dogaduje się z nim
try to persuade |pərˈsweɪd| him to come - spróbuj przekonywać
they persuaded |pərˈsweɪdəd| us that we were wrong
she'll only take me back if I can persuade her that I've changed
there is nothing I can do - nie mogę nic zrobić
Ginny has left me, and there's nothing I can do to persuade her to come back
I'll see if I can - zobaczymy czy da się 
nothing on earth |ɜːrθ| would persuade me - nic nie zmusi mnie
who do you get on well with? - z kim dogadujeszcz się?
it is important to quote |kwoʊt| strings when they contain blank spaces
feel free to experiment with this one as ...
it has a lot of important information in it
!I could have used the break command as we saw earlier in this chapter
I'm not even sure what it stands for
for each filename given on the command
note that this command requires the files be in the current directory
the variable initialized to zero  |ˈzɪroʊ|
if a file is not found, it will be set to 1
you must consider her age - musisz brać pod uwagę jej wiek
it is needed for your badge - to jest potrzebne do
take out the chicken after adding the vegetables - wyjmij
I can't leave her unless I know she's all right - ... jeśli nie ...
I will come unless I change my mind - ... jeśli nie ...
I will come till I change my mind ... aż nie zmienię swojego zdania
unless I am mistaken - jeśli się nie mylę
unless and until - tylko po tym jak
if you quit smoking, you will feel better (1)
if you study you will succeed |səkˈsiːd|
if you don't study you will fail
unless you study you will fail (unless = if not = jeśli nie)
unless you quit smoking you will feel bad
as long as you study you will do well - dopóki
as long as you smoke you will feel bad
you can't go to university unless you finish high school
you can't go to university if you don't finish high school
you can't enter the club unless you have identification 
you can't visit Italy unless you have visa
you can't borrow books unless you have library card
you can't pass the exam unless you prepare |prɪˈper|
you can't go out unless you clear your room
you can't improve English unless you read more books
don't mess it up - nie schrzań
try not to mess up your new dress before the party
it's no sense to go there unless she's there
you won't left work unless you answer emails
what do you have on right now? - w co jesteś ubrany?
go to fitting room and try it on to see if you like it
at the store I tried shorts on 
she kicked off her shoes - zdjęła (it's specific to shoes)
my feet hurt and I need to wear my shoes in - założyć wielokrotnie by zostały komfortowe
don't put your clohes on the floor and hang them up
go away = be on the vacation
move away = take everything to new place
I moved away to Poland when I was 10 - przemieściełem swoje rzeczy 
turn away = refuce admittance - odmówić wejścia
the restautant turned me away because it didn't have free tables
don't turn me away - daj mi wejść
mind the gap - uważaj na szczelinę
she had a brilliant mind
what's on your mind? = what are you thinking about?
I have a lot on my mind - mam wiele na głowie
if you heat water to 100 degrees, it boils (0)

I always take an umbrella in case it rains (0) (w przypadku)
he always learns English in the evening provided that he has time (pod warunkiem, że)
the lights don't come on unless it gets dark.
when the sun rises, it becomes light
kiedy wschodzi słońce, robi się jasno
he always answers the phone, provided he is in his office
most people check their e-mails as soon as they get to work
if you learn English every day, you will make progress
if you are watching TV, I'll go to the other room.
if you have finished doing your homework, we can go out.
if you need any help, call me (1)
don't call me unless it is really important |ɪmˈpɔːrtnt| (1)
will you let me know as soon as you get the results?
you should learn English systematically, if you want to pass your exam.
if I spoke English better, I would move to Australia. (2)
if you were studying, I wouldn't disturb you (2)
if I were you, I wouldn't eat so much chocolate (2)
if we had a car, we could go to the mountains (2)
if it wasn't raining, we could go for a walk (2)
if I were you, I would consult a lawyer |ˈlɔːjər| (2)
I wouldn't worry about her so much if she wasn't so careless (2)
you might have better results in sport if you practiced more (2)
if we had known about yesterday's party, we would have come (3)
she had just finished talking on the phone when the guests arrived
we had learned English for two years before we moved to England
Ania had already passed her exam, when she was offered a job
she is talking on the telephone
she must be in love with a singer - ona na pewno jest
she could be a dorctor or nurse - ona pewnie jest
she might have a headache - one możliwie ma? 
she can't have namy friends - ona na pewno nie ma 
she might not have a car 
Unless he was very ill, he would be at work