this tablets makes the backache better
can you repeat the address?
is that near the hospital? sure
you go past the hospital and take the second street
then turn right at the traffic lights
how long have you had it?
does it hurts now? yes, it does
excuse me, can you help me? sure
turn rights at the traffic lights and then go straight ahead
could you repeat that, please?
where can I buy it? at the drugstore. it's opposite the hotel
and do you have any caps? yes, they are next to the door
how much does it cost? that's five fifty. do you take visa?
would you like a bag? - chce pan reklamówkę?
where do you live? at 201 Wik street
I have to go now. What a pity!
we have to gp now. I'll call a taxi
thank you for waiting for me
can I help you? yes, how much are these shoes?
call him and talk to him
who is calling? - kto dzwoni?
can I speak to Tom, please? can you ask Tom to come to the phone?
ask her to call me after lunch
how is your headache now? - jak tam twoja ból głowy?
I always take an umbrella in case it rains (0) (w przypadku)
he always learns English in the evening provided that he has time (pod warunkiem, że)
the lights don't come on unless it gets dark.
when the sun rises, it becomes light
kiedy wschodzi słońce, robi się jasno
he always answers the phone, provided he is in his office
most people check their e-mails as soon as they get to work
if you learn English every day, you will make progress
if you are watching TV, I'll go to the other room.
if you have finished doing your homework, we can go out.
if you need any help, call me (1)
don't call me unless it is really important |ɪmˈpɔːrtnt| (1)
will you let me know as soon as you get the results?
you should learn English systematically, if you want to pass your exam.
if I spoke English better, I would move to Australia. (2)
if you were studying, I wouldn't disturb you (2)
if I were you, I wouldn't eat so much chocolate (2)
if we had a car, we could go to the mountains (2)
if it wasn't raining, we could go for a walk (2)
if I were you, I would consult a lawyer |ˈlɔːjər| (2)
I wouldn't worry about her so much if she wasn't so careless (2)
you might have better results in sport if you practiced more (2)
if we had known about yesterday's party, we would have come (3)
she had just finished talking on the phone when the guests arrived
we had learned English for two years before we moved to England
Ania had already passed her exam, when she was offered a job
she is talking on the telephone - ona rozmawia przez telefon
she must be in love with a singer - ona na pewno jest
she could be a dorctor or nurse - ona pewnie jest
she might have a headache - one możliwie ma? 
she can't have namy friends - ona na pewno nie ma 
she might not have a car 
Unless he was very ill, he would be at work
I can't approve your plan - nie mogę akceptować
I've booked you in at the Grand Hotel, I hope you approve
I don't care if all the other parents are letting their kids do it
what do you have in mind? - co masz na myśli?
it starts with a Usage message as it needs at least one filename to work on
so doing something like ... will generate an error
Feel free to name it whatever you like - możesz nazywać ...
and how they differ from each other
using the sleep command was also mentioned  |ˈmenʃənd|
I'll be able to - będę mógł?
I wish I knew - chciałbym wiedzieć
do you know how this is?
I am wasting my time with you
what good is a phone call if you're unable to speak 
we are proud of our culture of respect
"git restore <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)
respect is part of our core values and principles
Who can I go to if I need to speak up?
your line manager can help clarify anything you're unsure about and answer any questions you might have. 
remember: line managers are there to support you.
This is no way to proceed. - W ten sposób nie można kontynuować. 
In the next step, you may correct bugs if there are any
! ... but since we're doing this for the first time, we'll create one from scratch - z podowu?
An important distinction to be aware of when it comes to images is the difference between base and child images
There are tens of thousands of images available on Docker Hub
For simplicity, you can think of an image akin to a git repository
!ID is the corresponding unique identifier for that image
we'll shortly see how - wkrótce pokażę jak
in this section we'll dive deeper into what Docker images are
how do I create my own Docker image?
This is the question we'll be exploring in the next section.
I'm sure you agree that was super simple
To do that, you can run the docker rm command
Hence, as a rule of thumb, I clean up containers once I'm done with them
It rained throughout the day
Might be same, I do not know - być może tak samo
you need to make sure the firewall is not blocking
What you can do is - wszystko co możesz zrobić to 
I am now familiar with the everyday way of working and communication
Throughout this tutorial, you'll run docker run multiple times 
and leaving stray containers will eat up disk space
Just copy the container IDs from above and paste them alongside the command.
it automatically deletes the container once it's exited from

As a rule of thumb |θʌm|  - z reguły (wielki palec)
Lastly, you can also delete images that you no longer need by running
You can think of the registry as a directory of all available Docker images
The first thing we're going to look at is how we can run a dead-simple static website
Since our application is written in Python, the base image we're going to use will be Python 3
!Since the image doesn't exist locally, the client will first fetch the image from the registry and then run the image
Okay now that the server is running, how to see the website? What port is it running on?
And more importantly, how do we access the container directly from our host machine? Hit Ctrl+C to stop the container.
the client is not exposing any ports so we need to re-run the docker to publish ports
and asked the Docker client to run a container based on that image
it's time to create our own
As mentioned above, all user images are based on a base image
How are we going to do that?
It's a simple way to automate the image creation process
The best part is that - najlepsze jest to że
This means you don't really have to learn new syntax to create your own dockerfiles.
 If everything went well, your image should be ready
 Run docker images and see if your image shows.
 Head over to the URL with port 8888, where your app should be live.
 What good is an application that can't be shared with friends, right? 
 There are many different Docker registries you can use (you can even host your own).
 Provide the same credentials that you used for logging into Docker Hub.
 Once that is done, you can view your image on Docker Hub
 One thing that I'd like to clarify before we go ahead is that ...
 If you don’t want to preface the docker command with sudo, create a Unix group called docker
 The most memorable command to list all groups a user is a member of is the groups command
we recommend you keep the default key name unless you have a reason to change it.