we can add some notification or other steps to perform finalization
There are plenty of ways to send notifications
Now that the team is being notified when things are failing
The most basic pipeline will have, at minimum, three stages which should be defined 
This Guided Tour introduced you to the basics of using Jenkins
was this page helpful?
if you wish to find out more about these core Jenkins features, refer to the relevant topics
I was assuming I'd been pardoned. - zakladalem
it behaves the same as  - zachowuje się tak samo jak
If your Dockerfile has another name, you can specify the file name with the filename option
you can pass additional arguments to the command
it's a litte complex
the battery is fully charged - naładowana
however, feel free to use a different day if that suits you better
If the list for particular day is full, we will disable the option in the form
it turned out that - stało się tak że
He turned out an excellent actor - on okazał się
The thing about talk shows is that you never know how they will turn out.
He lied about his age
I dropped her somewhere about there
I'm really worried |ˈwɜːrid| about Jack
It didn't exactly turn out as I planned
reply to someone else or start a new conversation
if you take the first step, everything will turn out just fine
what do I do? - co mam zrobić?
what do you do? - czym się zajmujesz?
what do you do? I'm a taxi driver
what did you do? I was a tour guide
when were you a tour guide?
how many ... do you have?
could you repeat that, please?
you can't mave in untill you rent it
our plane took out with a small delay
take out the wallet from the left pocket
you would have to take out a rubbush every other day
she wants to take some money out from a cashmashine
do you have a reason to change it? yes, I do
where to? - dokąd?
who to? - do kogo?
what for? - po co?
who did you speak to? - z kim rozmawiałeś?
who are you waiting for? - na kogo czekasz? 
who does he work for? - dla kogo on pracuje?
who are you thinking about? - o kim myślisz?
who did you sta with? - z kim mieszkałes?
who does the pen belong to? - do kogo należy?
who is the letter from? - od kogo ten list?
what did he die of? - na co umarł?
what are you worried about? - o co się martwisz?
who are you writing to? - do kogo piszesz?
as a rule of thumb |θʌm|  - z reguły (wielki palec)
lastly, you can also delete images that you no longer need by running
You can think of the registry as a directory of all available Docker images
The first thing we're going to look at is how we can run a dead-simple static website
since our application is written in Python, the base image we're going to use will be Python 3
!since the image doesn't exist locally, the client will first fetch the image from the registry and then run the image
Okay now that the server is running, how to see the website? What port is it running on?
And more importantly, how do we access the container directly from our host machine? Hit Ctrl+C to stop the container.
the client is not exposing any ports so we need to re-run the docker to publish ports
and asked the Docker client to run a container based on that image
it's time to create our own
As mentioned above, all user images are based on a base image
How are we going to do that?
It's a simple way to automate the image creation process
The best part is that - najlepsze jest to że
This means you don't really have to learn new syntax to create your own dockerfiles.
If everything went well, your image should be ready
Run docker images and see if your image shows.
Head over to the URL with port 8888, where your app should be live.
What good is an application that can't be shared with friends, right? 
There are many different Docker registries you can use (you can even host your own).
Provide the same credentials that you used for logging into Docker Hub.
Once that is done, you can view your image on Docker Hub
One thing that I'd like to clarify before we go ahead is that ...
If you don’t want to preface the docker command with sudo, create a Unix group called docker
The most memorable command to list all groups a user is a member of is the groups command
we recommend you keep the default key name unless you have a reason to change it
can you tell me the time?
what's the time? it's 2 o'clock
it's a quarter past one
it's a half past two
it's a quarter to two - 13:45
when's the meeting? at half past ten
when does the train leave? at quarter to three
I'll meet you twenty past ten
it was at who twenty jesterday
the meeting is at ten ten this morning
welcome to the meeting
your flight leaves at twelve tomorrow evening
she is happy and he is sad
she is worried and angry
sorry. I am late
you are early - jesteś za wcześnie
she's waiting for her husband. he's late
he's very late and she's angry
my card is not here. I'll go and get it after lunch
I'll call him and make an appointment
I left my card in your shop. I thought I lost it.
thank for calling
can you come and get it? I'll come at half past two

