

are you coming? - idziesz?
she comb [kəum] her hair in the morning
the dental floss cleans where your brush can't reach
we have to go now! sure
are you going out after lunch?
you are not allowed to park here
does this bus go to the drugstore?
can you tell me when to get off?
how long does it take to get there?
there is a timetable above your head
here you are - masz
he's waiting for the bus
he's getting on the bus
he's going by bus
she missed the bus
he's getting off the bus
a tram, a train, a plane and a ferry (statek)
does this train go to ...? no, it doesn't
how much to Crown Road? that's two dollars fifty
the meeting is in one hour - za godzinę
how long will it take? two hours
half an hour - pół godziny
quarter of an hour - kwadrans
when does the plane for New York leave? in half an hour
heat for 20 seconds
how many hours in one day? twenty four
how many weeks in one year? 52
where the timetable is?
when is the next train to Lublin? in 5 minutes
here you are and here's your change (reszta)
you're not allowed to eat on the bus
you're not allowed to turn left here
how much is it to ... street?
I'm sorry. I don't have anything smaller
when does the restaurant open?
I wish I could play the piano
All required fields should be filled in
Thanks for your support very much
The following script demonstrates this behavior
When executed, the script displays ...
Are you sure you want to continue connecting?
they discover for themseves how English works
I was trying to reproduce the issue on Wednesday 
If you find the default message |ˈmesɪdʒ| unsatisfactory
the code will be called right/shortly before the destructor
You can remove any or all of the  them if their bodies would be empty
The function does nothing if the assertion is satisfied (zadowalające)
If you do not specify a time unit, hour will be assumed
so googletest tests can work with a variety of configurations
googletest assertions are macros that resemble function calls
Inside the class, declare any objects you plan to use.
other than what's already done by the destructor
you don't have to re-list all your defined tests in order to run them
are you staying on the territory of the Republic of Poland?
competence in English is opens doors to international communication
there is a letter for you. who's it from? it's from Ken - od kogo to?
Information about scope and costs of each option is provided below
and display debugging information only for troublesome zones
!Say we are not sure what the w command will do in the example
The dash is used to activate a shell option and a plus to deactivate it. 
In the example below, we demonstrate these options on the command line
you can add echo statements before each command of which you are unsure
so that you will see exactly where and why things don't work - tak aby 
Thus, you can detect and fix multiple bugs in a single run-edit-compile cycle.
we can add some notification or other steps to perform finalization
There are plenty of ways to send notifications
Now that the team is being notified when things are failing
The most basic pipeline will have, at minimum, three stages which should be defined 
This Guided Tour introduced you to the basics of using Jenkins
if you wish to find out more about these core Jenkins features, refer to the relevant topics
it behaves the same as  - zachowuje się tak samo jak
If your Dockerfile has another name, you can specify the file name with the filename option
however, feel free to use a different day if that suits you better
If the list for particular day is full, we will disable the option in the form
lastly, you can also delete images that you no longer need by running
You can think of the registry as a directory of all available Docker images
The first thing we're going to look at is how we can run a dead-simple static website
since our application is written in Python, the base image we're going to use will be Python 3
!since the image doesn't exist locally, the client will first fetch the image from the registry and then run the image
Okay now that the server is running, how to see the website? What port is it running on?
And more importantly, how do we access the container directly from our host machine? Hit Ctrl+C to stop the container.
the client is not exposing any ports so we need to re-run the docker to publish ports
and asked the Docker client to run a container based on that image
As mentioned above, all user images are based on a base image
It's a simple way to automate the image creation process
The best part is that - najlepsze jest to że
This means you don't really have to learn new syntax to create your own dockerfiles.
If everything went well, your image should be ready
Run docker images and see if your image shows.
Head over to the URL with port 8888, where your app should be live.
What good is an application that can't be shared with friends, right? 
There are many different Docker registries you can use (you can even host your own).
Provide the same credentials that you used for logging into Docker Hub.
Once that is done, you can view your image on Docker Hub
One thing that I'd like to clarify before we go ahead is that ...
If you don’t want to preface the docker command with sudo, create a Unix group called docker
The most memorable command to list all groups a user is a member of is the groups command
we recommend you keep the default key name unless you have a reason to change it
When tests fail, they should provide as much information about the problem as possible
if any assertion in the test fails, the entire test fails. Otherwise, it succeeds
In this case, TearDown() is not needed since we don't have to clean up after each test
since googletest is based on the popular xUnit architecture, you'll feel right at home
You can switch debugging mode on and off as many times as you want within the same script
If you wish to enroll to Medical Care Program for the first time please follow these instructions
When things don't go according to plan, you need to determine what exactly causes the script to fail
Time Spent - the amount of time logged working on the issue so far or while performing this JIRA operation.
Using the set Bash built-in you can run in normal mode those portions of the script of which you are sure they are without fault
In more advanced scripts, the echo can be inserted to display the content of variables at different stages in the script, so that flaws can be detected
!if you find yourself writing two or more tests that operate on similar data, you can use a test fixture