APPLICATION FOR GRANTING THE TEMPORARY RESIDENCE PERMIT TO A FOREIGNER
I assume his train was late - zakładam, że jego pociąg się spóźnił
they abandoned (upuścili) their attempt (próba) to recapture the castle.
how do you utilize this tool? - jak korzystać z tego narzędzia? 
we must utilize all the tools at our disposal
as a child, Angela was abandoned by her mother
the captain gave the order to abandon |əˈbændən| ship
that house was abandoned |əˈbændənd| years ago
I don't think he's going to abandon his friend in trouble - porzucić/zostawić
she refused to see him - odmówiła w 
dismiss your fear - uwolnij się od?
done successfully. no issues found
I gave him my name
I'm basically happy with the default dark theme, but would like comments in code to stand out more. - odroznic sie
distributed as regular order in the mid of the current quarter - wydawana
you will receive the link for current quarter order soon
loading of the card is done at beginning of the second month of the quarter
cards can be used not only in all bookstores 
but also to buy tickets for all the cultural events 
which take place in cinemas, theatres, operas and museums as well as to pay - odbywają się
for the entrance to the sport centres such as Aquapark, etc
Each person employed at the Company on the basis of an employment contract 
who is entitled to use the Fund?
Looks good to me, but someone else must approve - potwierdzić
due to the size of our local society we would like to offer you 3 options for joining us at hotel
cinema codes are sent via e-mail at the beginning of the second month of the quarter
these cards are distributed just before the beginning of the quarter
please don’t forget to place your order before the deadline
Dear newcomers, please find the link to the short presentation 
Then use the link received on your mailbox and fill the form. You can fill the form only once!
after the deadline links still be active and order can be done, but the sport cards cannot be ordered for November timeframe
then this line is considered as a comment and is ignored before interpreted
our mother's illness concerns us
this file causes the following build behavior
exclude files and directories whose names start with temp in any immediate subdirectory of the root
exclude files and directories starting with temp from any subdirectory that is two levels below the root
Lines that are blank after preprocessing are ignored
Lines starting with ! (exclamation mark) can be used to make exceptions to exclusions
all markdown files except README.md are excluded from the context
ARG is the only instruction that may precede FROM in the Dockerfile - poprzedzać
if you omit either of them, the builder assumes a latest tag by default
to achieve this, specify * as the first pattern, followed by one or more ! exception patterns
the decision was consistent with the company's policy - zgodnie z 
is typically used to address issues with variable names with no whitespace
this helps to avoid unnecessarily sending large or sensitive files and directories to the daemon
the FROM instruction specifies the Parent Image from which you are building
line continuation characters are not supported in comments
therefore, all parser directives must be at the very top of a Dockerfile
treated as a comment due to appearing after a builder instruction
if not specified, the default escape character is \ (backslash)
note that regardless of whether the escape parser directive is included in a Dockerfile
the escape character is used both to escape characters in a line, and to escape a newline
Docker treats lines that begin with # as a comment, unless the line is a valid parser directive. 
A # marker anywhere else in a line is treated as an argument. 
Docker will re-use the cache, to accelerate the docker build process significantly.
The problem concerns |kənˈsɝːnz| us all.
The Docker daemon runs the instructions in the Dockerfile one-by-one
as it causes the build to transfer the entire contents of your hard drive to the Docker daemon
her ill health concerns me.
it performs a preliminary validation of the Dockerfile and returns an error if the syntax is incorrect
if a download fails due to a network problem, it will keep retrying until the whole file has been retrieved
is a free utility for non-interactive download of files from the Web
Long options are more convenient to remember, but take time to type
you may freely mix different option styles
If you use -c on a non-empty file, and the server does not support continued downloading ...
the space between the option accepting an argument and the argument may be omitted
the same happens when the file is smaller on the server than locally
This behavior can be desirable (porządany) in certain cases
another instance where you'll get a garbled file if you try to use -c is if you have a lame HTTP proxy
Server support for continued download is required, otherwise --start-pos cannot help
Wget will assume that it is the first portion of the remote file
if there is a file named ls-lR.Z in the current directory
Wget will restart the download from scratch and overwrite the existing file entirely
Copy one of the examples below into your repository and name it Jenkinsfile
Provide a name for your new item
click the Add Source button, choose the type of repository you want to use and fill in the details.
Click the Save button and watch your first Pipeline run!
Think of a "step" like a single command which performs a single action
when a step succeeds it moves onto the next step - powiódł się 
all the steps in the Pipeline have successfully completed
when a step fails to execute correctly the Pipeline will fail
and then waits for up to (do) 3 minutes for the script to execute
If the health check script does not complete in 3 minutes, the Pipeline will be marked as having failed
we can compose these steps together - komponować
These actions can be performed in the post section.
This will run only if failed
under the hood - pod maską
Underneath the hood, there are a few things agent causes to happen - pod maską?
as soon as an executor is available, the steps will begin to execute
for this tour we will only focus on
his approach allows you to use practically any tool which can be packaged in a Docker container
When the Pipeline executes, Jenkins will automatically start the specified container 
and execute the defined steps within it
most people don’t want to sift through thousands of lines of console output to find information about failing tests
A Pipeline that has failing tests will be marked as "UNSTABLE", 
That is distinct from the "FAILED" state, denoted by red. - to się odróznia od
it is often useful to grab built artifacts from Jenkins
This is easily done with the archiveArtifacts step, as is demonstrated in the example below
we’ll talk about how to tell those members of the team what’s been happening in our Pipeline
Since the post section of a Pipeline is guaranteed to run at the end of a Pipeline’s execution 
we can add some notification or other steps to perform finalization
There are plenty of ways to send notifications
Now that the team is being notified when things are failing
The most basic pipeline will have, at minimum, three stages which should be defined 
This Guided Tour introduced you to the basics of using Jenkins
was this page helpful?
if you wish to find out more about these core Jenkins features, refer to the relevant topics
I was assuming I'd been pardoned. - zakladalem
it behaves the same as  - zachowuje się tak samo jak
If your Dockerfile has another name, you can specify the file name with the filename option
you can pass additional arguments to the command
it's a litte complex

the battery is fully charged - naładowana
however, feel free to use a different day if that suits you better
If the list for particular day is full, we will disable the option in the form
it turned out that - stało się tak że
He turned out an excellent actor - on okazał się
The thing about talk shows is that you never know how they will turn out.
He lied about his age
I dropped her somewhere about there
I'm really worried |ˈwɜːrid| about Jack
It didn't exactly turn out as I planned
reply to someone else or start a new conversation
if you take the first step, everything will turn out just fine
what do I do? - co mam zrobić?
what do you do? - czym się zajmujesz?
what do you do? I'm a taxi driver
what did you do? I was a tour guide
when were you a tour guide?
how many ... do you have?
could you repeat that, please?
you can't mave in untill you rent it
our plane took out with a small delay
take out the wallet from the left pocket
you would have to take out a rubbush every other day
she wants to take some money out from a cashmashine
do you have a reason to change it? yes, I do
where to? - dokąd?
who to? - do kogo?
what for? - po co?
who did you speak to? - z kim rozmawiałeś?
who are you waiting for? - na kogo czekasz? 
who does he work for? - dla kogo on pracuje?
who are you thinking about? - o kim myślisz?
who did you sta with? - z kim mieszkałes?
who does the pen belong to? - do kogo należy?
who is the letter from? - od kogo ten list?
what did he die of? - na co umarł?
what are you worried about? - o co się martwisz?
who are you writing to? - do kogo piszesz?
as a rule of thumb |θʌm|  - z reguły (wielki palec)
lastly, you can also delete images that you no longer need by running
You can think of the registry as a directory of all available Docker images
The first thing we're going to look at is how we can run a dead-simple static website
since our application is written in Python, the base image we're going to use will be Python 3
!since the image doesn't exist locally, the client will first fetch the image from the registry and then run the image
Okay now that the server is running, how to see the website? What port is it running on?
And more importantly, how do we access the container directly from our host machine? Hit Ctrl+C to stop the container.
the client is not exposing any ports so we need to re-run the docker to publish ports
and asked the Docker client to run a container based on that image
it's time to create our own
As mentioned above, all user images are based on a base image
How are we going to do that?
It's a simple way to automate the image creation process
The best part is that - najlepsze jest to że
This means you don't really have to learn new syntax to create your own dockerfiles.
If everything went well, your image should be ready
Run docker images and see if your image shows.
Head over to the URL with port 8888, where your app should be live.
What good is an application that can't be shared with friends, right? 
There are many different Docker registries you can use (you can even host your own).
Provide the same credentials that you used for logging into Docker Hub.
Once that is done, you can view your image on Docker Hub
One thing that I'd like to clarify before we go ahead is that ...
If you don’t want to preface the docker command with sudo, create a Unix group called docker
The most memorable command to list all groups a user is a member of is the groups command
we recommend you keep the default key name unless you have a reason to change it
can you tell me the time?
what's the time? it's 2 o'clock
it's a quarter past one
it's a half past two
it's a quarter to two - 13:45
when's the meeting? at half past ten
when does the train leave? at quarter to three
I'll meet you twenty past ten
it was at who twenty jesterday
the meeting is at ten ten this morning
welcome to the meeting
your flight leaves at twelve tomorrow evening
she is happy and he is sad
she is worried and angry
sorry. I am late
you are early - jesteś za wcześnie
she's waiting for her husband. he's late
he's very late and she's angry
my card is not here. I'll go and get it after lunch
I'll call him and make an appointment
I left my card in your shop. I thought I lost it.
thank for calling
can you come and get it? I'll come at half past two
is that all right?
I can't. I have to go to the supermarket
would you have some lunch now?
I'll have some lunch first - zjem najpierw obiad
are you coming? - idziesz?
we have to go now! sure
are you going out after lunch?
you are not allowed to park here
does this bus go to the drugstore?
can you tell me when to get off?
how long does it take to get there?
there is a timetable above your head
here you are - masz
he's waiting for the bus
he's getting on the bus
he's going by bus
she missed the bus
he's getting off the bus
a tram, a train, a plane and a ferry (statek)
does this train go to ...? no, it doesn't
how much to Crown Road? that's two dollars fifty
the meeting is in one hour - za godzinę
how long will it take? two hours
half an hour - pół godziny
quarter of an hour - kwadrans
when does the plane for New York leave? in half an hour
heat for 20 seconds
how many hours in one day? twenty four
how many weeks in one year? 52
where the timetable is?
when is the next train to Lublin? in 5 minutes
here you are and here's your change (reszta)
you're not allowed to eat on the bus
you're not allowed to turn left here
how much is it to ... street?
I'm sorry. I don't have anything smaller
when does the restaurant open?
I wish I could play the piano
competence in English is opens doors to international communication
they discover for themseves how English works
there is a letter for you. who's it from? it's from Ken - od kogo to?
Are you sure you want to continue connecting?
Are you staying on the territory of the Republic of Poland?
All required fields should be filled in.
close without saveing
Information about scope and costs of each option is provided below
If you do not specify a time unit, hour will be assumed. s
If you wish to enroll to Medical Care Program for the first time please follow these instructions
Time Spent - the amount of time logged working on the issue so far or while performing this JIRA operation.
When things don't go according to plan, you need to determine what exactly causes the script to fail
Using the set Bash built-in you can run in normal mode those portions of the script of which you are sure they are without fault
and display debugging information only for troublesome zones
!Say we are not sure what the w command will do in the example
You can switch debugging mode on and off as many times as you want within the same script
The dash is used to activate a shell option and a plus to deactivate it. 
Don't let this confuse you!
In the example below, we demonstrate these options on the command line
you can add echo statements before each command of which you are unsure
I am unsure - nie jestem pewny
so that you will see exactly where and why things don't work - tak aby 
In more advanced scripts, the echo can be inserted to display the content of variables at different stages in the script, so that flaws can be detected